# MLSP F25 Final Project (Group 3)
- Hee So Kim (heesok@andrew.cmu.edu)
- Seo-Yoon Moon (smoon2@andrew.cmu.edu)

## File Structure
`requirements.txt`: Required python package to run the codebase.

### Data
`data/`
- `die_with_a_smile.wav`: Original full music file.
- `die_with_a_smile_trimmed_51s.wav`: 51-second trimmed segment of the original song (chorus section).
- `vocal_trimmed.wav`: Trimmed vocal-only track corresponding to the same 51-second segment (downloaded from YouTube).
- `inst_trimmed.wav`: Trimmed instrumental-only track corresponding to the same 51-second segment (downloaded from YouTube).
- `Tiki3_dev1/`: Tiki3 Dev 1 audio file from SiSEC 2011 dataset (`original.wav`, `vocals.wav`, `guitar.wav`)


### Codes
`scripts/`
- `NMF_BSS.ipynb`: Implementation of the NMF-based blind source separation method.
- `ica.py`: Implementation of the ICA-based blind source separation method. Run following comment to run ICA
    ```
    python scripts/ica.py --input INPUT_FILE --output_dir OUTPUT_DIR
    ```
- `iva+ilrma.ipynb`: Implementation of IVA and ILRMA.
- `utils.py`: Utility function for loading and preprocessing audio files before evaluation, including resampling to match sample rates and trimming to align lengths.
- `plot_quantitative_results.ipynb`: Quantitative evaluation script computing MSE, SDR, SIR, and SAR for all methods.
- `plot_qualitative_results.ipynb`: Qualitative evaluation script visualizing pitch tracks and MFCC features for comparison.


### Results
`output/`
- Each folder contains the separated outputs generated by different BSS methods.  
   
`figures/`
- Figures for quantitative and qualitative evaluation.